I study how ice interacts with the
oceans with implications for climate sea
ice is basically it's ice that forms
each winter in the polar oceans when you
get through to winter the temperatures
get so cold up there in the Arctic and
Antarctic that you start to actually
freeze the surface of the ocean and you
end up forming this thin layer of ice so
maybe a few meters of ice but the thing
we were really interested in
understanding is how when you grow this
ice how does the salt that was initially
in the sea water drain out of the ice as
it grows into the ocean and then how
does that impact which has important
consequences for ocean circulation and
mixing if you think about the ice that
we're familiar with looking at is things
like ice cubes where you've got really
solid ice one of the quirky things that
happens when you freeze salt water is
rather than growing this nice pure ice
crystal you actually get something
that's quite porous and so you get a
mess of lots of ice crystals with liquid
salty water traps in in between those
ice crystals but because it's a lot
heavier than the underlying ocean it
basically will want to sink down into
the underlying ocean waters and then
this can drive some circulation and then
that can have potentially have
downstream impacts on things such as how
carbon is mixed down into the deep ocean
things that are happening on relatively
short timescales that we were studying
but the accumulated effects may add up
to have a longer-term climatic impact
you